## 4.2 What's Inside a Router?
Four router components:
+ Input ports
+ Output ports
+ switch fabric
+ processor


the lookup of the destination address and
the storing the packet into the appropriate memory location

### 4.2.4 Where does queuing occur?


Suppose that the input and output line speeds (transmission rates) all have an
identical transmission rate of Rline packets per second, and that there are N input ports
and N output ports. To further simplify the discussion, let’s assume that all packets
have the same fixed length, and that packets arrive to input ports in a synchronous
manner. That is, the time to send a packet on any link is equal to the time to receive a
packet on any link, and during such an interval of time, either zero or one packets can
arrive on an input link. Define the switching fabric transfer rate Rswitch as the rate at
which packets can be moved from input port to output port. If Rswitch is N times faster
than Rline, then only negligible queuing will occur at the input ports. This is because
even in the worst case, where all N input lines are receiving packets, and all packets
are to be forwarded to the same output port, each batch of N packets (one packet per
input port) can be cleared through the switch fabric before the next batch arrives.
#### Input Queueing
But what happens if the switch fabric is not fast enough (relative to the input line
speeds) to transfer all arriving packets through the fabric without delay? In this case,
packet queuing can also occur at the input ports, as packets must join input port
queues to wait their turn to be transferred through the switching fabric to the output
port. To illustrate an important consequence of this queuing, consider a crossbar
switching fabric and suppose that 
  (1) all link speeds are identical, 
  (2) that one packet can be transferred from any one input port to a given output port in the same amount of time it takes for a packet to be received on an input link, and 
  (3) packets are moved from a given input queue to their desired output queue in an FCFS manner. 

Multiple packets can be transferred in parallel, as long as their output ports are different. However,
if two packets at the front of two input queues are destined for the same output
queue, then one of the packets will be blocked and must wait at the input queue—the
switching fabric can transfer only one packet to a given output port at a time.
Figure 4.8 shows an example in which two packets (darkly shaded) at the front
of their input queues are destined for the same upper-right output port. Suppose that
the switch fabric chooses to transfer the packet from the front of the upper-left queue.
In this case, the darkly shaded packet in the lower-left queue must wait. But not only
must this darkly shaded packet wait, so too must the lightly shaded packet that is
queued behind that packet in the lower-left queue, even though there is no contention
for the middle-right output port (the destination for the lightly shaded packet).
This phenomenon is known as head-of-the-line (HOL) blocking in an input-queued
switch—a queued packet in an input queue must wait for transfer through the fabric
(even though its output port is free) because it is blocked by another packet at the
head of the line. [Karol 1987] shows that due to HOL blocking, the input queue will
grow to unbounded length (informally, this is equivalent to saying that significant
packet loss will occur) under certain assumptions as soon as the packet arrival rate
on the input links reaches only 58 percent of their capacity. A number of solutions to
HOL blocking are discussed in [McKeown 1997].

#### Output Queueing
Let’s next consider whether queueing can occur at a switch’s output ports. Suppose
that Rswitch is again N times faster than Rline and that packets arriving at each of the N
input ports are destined to the same output port. In this case, in the time it takes to send a
single packet onto the outgoing link, N new packets will arrive at this output port
(one from each of the N input ports). Since the output port can transmit only a single
packet in a unit of time (the packet transmission time), the N arriving packets will
have to queue (wait) for transmission over the outgoing link. Then N more packets
can possibly arrive in the time it takes to transmit just one of the N packets that had
just previously been queued. And so on. Thus, packet queues can form at the output
ports even when the switching fabric is N times faster than the port line speeds.
Eventually, the number of queued packets can grow large enough to exhaust available
memory at the output port.


When there is not enough memory to buffer an incoming packet, a decision must
be made to either drop the arriving packet (a policy known as drop-tail) or remove
one or more already-queued packets to make room for the newly arrived packet. In
some cases, it may be advantageous to drop (or mark the header of) a packet before
the buffer is full in order to provide a congestion signal to the sender. This marking
could be done using the Explicit Congestion Notification bits that we studied in
Section 3.7.2. A number of proactive packet-dropping and -marking policies (which
collectively have become known as active queue management (AQM) algorithms)
have been proposed and analyzed [Labrador 1999, Hollot 2002]. One of the most
widely studied and implemented AQM algorithms is the Random Early Detection
(RED) algorithm [Christiansen 2001]. More recent AQM policies include PIE (the
Proportional Integral controller Enhanced [RFC 8033]), and CoDel [Nichols 2012].
Output port queuing is illustrated in Figure 4.9. 
At time t, a packet has arrived
at each of the incoming input ports, each destined for the uppermost outgoing port.
Assuming identical line speeds and a switch operating at three times the line speed, one
time unit later (that is, in the time needed to receive or send a packet), all three original
packets have been transferred to the outgoing port and are queued awaiting transmission.
In the next time unit, one of these three packets will have been transmitted over the
outgoing link.