The transport layer in the receiving host does not actually deliver data directly to a process, but instead to an intermediary socket.

Each transport-layer segment has a set of fields in the segment to direct the segment to the appropriate socket. At the receiving end, the transport layer examines these fields to identify the receiving socket and then directs the segment to that socket.

The job of
  + delivering the data in a transport-layer segment to the correct socket
is called *demultiplexing*.
The job of
  + gathering data chunks at the source host from different sockets,
  + encapsulating each with header information(that will be used in demultiplexing later) to create segments,
  + passing the segment to the network layer
is called *multiplexing*

1) sockets have unique identifiers
2) each segment have special fields

These special fields, are the *source port number field* and the *destination port number field*.

Fig 3.3
            32-bit
------------------------------
Source.port #  |   Dest.port #
------------------------------
    Other header fields
------------------------------
    Application Layer Data
    (message)
------------------------------


#### Connectionless Multiplexing and Demultiplexing
clientSocket = socket(AF_INET, SOCK_STREAM)
clientSocket.bind(('', 19157))

#### Connection-Oriented Multiplexing and Demultiplexing
In particular, and in contrast with UDP, two arriving TCP segments with different source IP addresses or source port numbers will (with the exception of a TCP segment carrying the original connection-establishment request) be directed to two different sockets.

+ The TCP server application has a “welcoming socket,” that waits for connection establishment requests from TCP clients (see Figure 2.29) on port number 12000.

+ The TCP client creates a socket and sends a connection establishment request
segment with the lines:
  clientSocket = socket(AF_INET, SOCK_STREAM)
  clientSocket.connect(serverName, 12000)

+ A connection-establishment request is nothing more than a TCP segment with
destination port number 12000 and a special connection-establishment bit set in
the TCP header (discussed in Section 3.5). The segment also includes a source
port number that was chosen by the client.

+ When the host operating system of the computer running the server process
receives the incoming connection-request segment with destination port 12000,
it locates the server process that is waiting to accept a connection on port number 12000. The server process then creates a new socket:
  connectionSocket, addr = serverSocket.accept()
